# Password Generator

[SEE THE DEPLOYED APPLICATION HERE](https://dishdesigner.github.io/password-generator/)
* [See the form-based version!](https://dishdesigner.github.io/password-generator/index4form) discussed in Extensions below.

---

## Description
This application is a simple random password generator. It was built with pure HTML, CSS, and Javascript for use in a typical web browser environment. This project had several criteria:
* The passwords generated will contain categories of characters chosen by the user from: lowercase letters, uppercase letters, special characters, and numbers.
* The password must contain at least one character from each of the selected categories.
* The password can range in length from 8 to 128 characters.

## Extensions this project
* It would be good to create a more sophisticated form interface for gathering the user's input and which kinds of characters to use like a form with checkboxes and labels showing examples of each character category.
* It would be good to place a Copy button in the interface to copy any generated password to the Clipboard automatically so users don't have to select a displayed password string and worry they got all the characters included (especially if the password starts or ends with special characters).
* It would also be useful to give users an option to limit the special characters used!
* I personally use Dashlane as a password manager, and it has no features for limiting special characters to a smaller range. Many websites only allow a small number of special characters in their passwords. In those cases, you have to turn OFF special characters in Dashlane's interface, then MANUALLY add a special character to the generated password to meet the website's criteria....a process best avoided!
* Finally, it would be worthwhile to convert such a password manager into a full-fledged password manager as a web browser extension so it can be used alongside any website's user account setup pages without interrupting the web page's functioning.
* When a password is generated by the extension, it would automatically be able to enter the new password into the login form and also record it in an internal secure database, along with the username and URL where it is used to log in. That is full-blown software with local storage, security issues, state maintenance, modal dialogs, constant background watchers for form inputs...a big project!

---

## Installation

There are no installation steps required to view this project. Just a web browser. Click the deployment link above.

---

## Usage

To use the application, click the Deployed Application link above. To see the form-based version, click the secondary link. Answer the questions about which characters you'd like in a password and its length. The application will generate a random password for you to use that contains at least one of every category you chose.

[original prototype screenshot](https://dishdesigner.github.io/password-generator/assets/images/project-mockup.png)

---

## License

See MIT License file within repo.

---